docs: Add component template format docs (#1205)
0xPolygonMiden/miden-base: docs/architecture/component_templates.md

# Account component templates

An account component template provides a general description of an account component. It encapsulates all the information needed to initialize and manage the component.

Specifically, a template specifies a component's **metadata** and its **code**.

> Once defined, a component template can be instantiated as account components, which can then be grouped to form the account's `Code`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once defined, a component template can be instantiated as account components, which can then be merged to form the account's `Code`.
```

Nit: I would call this process merging, which is consistent with how it is described in some Rust doc comments.

## Component code

The component template’s code defines a library of functions that operate on the specified storage layout.

## Component metadata

The component metadata describes the account component entirely: its name, description, version, and storage layout.

The storage layout can optionally define specific initial values for each of the slots. Alternatively, placeholders can be utilized to identify values that should be provided at the moment of instantiation.

### TOML specification

The component metadata can be defined using TOML. Below is an example specification:

```toml
name = "Fungible Faucet"
description = "This component displays valid values for component templates"
version = "1.0.0"
supported-types = ["FungibleFaucet"]

[[storage]]
name = "token_metadata"
description = "Contains metadata about the token associated to the faucet account. The metadata is formed by three fields: max supply, the token symbol and the asset's decimals"
slot = 0
value = [
    { type = "felt", name = "max_supply", description = "Maximum supply of the token in base units" },

>     { type = "tokensymbol", value = "TST" },

Reviewer: Not related to the docs, but should this be `token_symbol` instead?
More generally, do we have a convention for the template types (snake case, camel case, ...)? For the rpo key we're using snake case.

Reviewer 2: I agree that we should probably specify the naming convention (even if we are not enforcing it), and if we do so, I'd probably go with snake case.

Author: Agreed! Opened https://github.com/0xPolygonMiden/miden-base/pull/1215

Author: [TOML does not allow inline tables to have newlines](https://toml.io/en/v1.0.0#inline-table), so no very simple way to do this other than using full tables which does not look too nice either.

    { type = "u8", name = "decimals", description = "Number of decimal places for converting to absolute units", value = "10" },
    { value = "0x0" }
]

[[storage]]
name = "owner_public_key"
description = "This is a value placeholder"
slot = 1
type = "auth::rpo_falcon512::pub_key"

[[storage]]
name = "map_storage_entry"
slot = 2
values = [
    { key = "0x1", value = ["0x0", "249381274", "998123581", "124991023478"] },
    { key = "0xDE0B1140012A9FD912F18AD9EC85E40F4CB697AE", value = { name = "value_placeholder", description = "This value will be defined at the moment of instantiation", type = "word" } }
]

> ```

Reviewer: Is this intentionally missing a multi-slot example? I think for the docs it would be useful to have an "exhaustive example", i.e. an example that shows the entire range of possibilities. That way we can refer to each variant in the specification below.

Author: Yeah, I intentionally left it out, though I debated adding one. I was wondering if it would not add more noise than anything else, since there currently is no typing for multi-slot values which means that essentially you are just defining a list of single words. In any case, for completeness, I will add one.

#### Header

The metadata header specifies four fields:

- `name`: The component template's name
- `description` (optional): A brief description of the component template and its functionality
- `version`: A semantic version of this component template
- `supported-types`: Specifies the types of accounts on which the component can be used. Valid values are `FungibleFaucet`, `NonFungibleFaucet`, `RegularAccountUpdatableCode` and `RegularAccountImmutableCode`

#### Storage entries

An account component template can have multiple storage entries. A storage entry can specify either a **single-slot value**, a **multi-slot value**, or a **storage map**.

Each of these storage entries contain the following fields:

- `name`: A name for identifying the storage entry
- `description` (optional): Describes the intended function of the storage slot within the component definition

Additionally, based on the type of the storage entry, there are specific fields that should be specified.

##### Single-slot value

> A single-slot value fits within one slot (i.e., one word).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A single-slot value fits within one slot (i.e., one `word`).
```

Nit: In the rest of the page, `word` is stylized.

For a single-slot entry, the following fields are expected:

- `slot`: Specifies the slot index in which the value will be placed
- `value` (optional): Contains the initial storage value for this slot. Will be interpreted as a `word` unless another `type` is specified
- `type` (optional): Describes the expected type for the slot

> If no `value` is provided, the entry acts as a placeholder, requiring a value to be passed at instantiation. In this case, specifying a `type` is mandatory to ensure the input is correctly parsed.
> Valid types for a single-slot value are `word` or `auth::rpo_falcon512::pub_key`.
> 
> Note that at least one of `value` and `type` should be specified. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no `value` is provided, the entry acts as a placeholder, requiring a value to be passed at instantiation. In this case, specifying a `type` is mandatory to ensure the input is correctly parsed. So the rule is that at least one of `value` and `type` has to be specified.

Valid types for a single-slot value are `word` or `auth::rpo_falcon512::pub_key`.
```

Nit: I would reorder this to group the "rule" related sentences together.

In the above example, the first and second storage entries are single-slot values.

##### Multi-slot value

Multi-slot values are composite values that exceed the size of a single slot (i.e., more than one `word`).

For multi-slot values, the following fields are expected:

> - `slots`: Specifies the list of slots that the value comprises

Reviewer: This should probably mention that this list has to be contiguous.

- `values`: Contains the initial storage value for the specified slots

Placeholders can currently not be defined for multi-slot values.

##### Storage maps

> Storage maps consist of key-value pairs, where both keys and values are single words.

Reviewer: This could link to `docs/architecture/accounts.md#storage` in case someone is unfamiliar with storage maps.

Storage map entries can specify the following fields:

> - `slot`: Specifies the slot index in which the value will be placed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `slot`: Specifies the slot index in which the root of the map will be placed
```

Nit: Maybe this should mention the root?

> - `values`: Contains a list of map entries, defined by a `key` and `value `

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `values`: Contains a list of map entries, defined by a `key` and `value`
```

Storage maps `key`s and `value`s are word-long values, which can be defined as placeholders.

In the example, the third storage entry defines a storage map.

> #### Specifying values and their types

Reviewer: What do you think about moving this section to before `Header`? This serves as a good reminder what felt and word mean in case people are unfamiliar/forgot.

Author: Makes sense, moved it

In the TOML format, any value that is one word long can be written as a single value, or as exactly four field elements. In turn, a field element is a number within Miden's finite field. 

A word can be written as a hexadecimal value, and field elements can be written either as hexadecimal or decimal numbers.

In our example, the `token_metadata` single-slot entry is defined as four elements, where the first element is a placeholder, and the second, third and fourth are hardcoded values.

##### Word-long types

> Valid word-long types are `word` (default type) and `auth::rpo_falcon512::pub_key` (represents a Falcon public key). Both can be parsed as hexadecimal strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Valid word types are `word` (default type) and `auth::rpo_falcon512::pub_key` (represents a Falcon public key). Both can be written as hexadecimal strings.
```

Do we need "word-long" or is "word" clear enough?

Nit: Users probably care about what they can write rather than what our code can parse.

Author: I wanted to differentiate between the `word` template type, and word as a general VM concept (also applies to your other comment about how it's being stylized). There will also be types that are more than one word long. But it's a good point and I'm not 100% sure about the wording here, so if you think it's better as you are suggesting I can change it.

##### Felt-long types

> Valid field element types are `u8`, `u16`, `u32`, `felt` and `tokensymbol`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Valid field element types are `u8`, `u16`, `u32`, `felt` (default type) and `tokensymbol`:
```

Nit: For consistency with the word section.

> - `u8`, `u16` and `u32` values can be parsed as decimal numbers and represent 8-bit, 16-bit and 32-bit values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `u8`, `u16` and `u32` values can be parsed as decimal numbers and represent 8-bit, 16-bit and 32-bit unsigned integers
```

# Account component templates

An account component template provides a general description of an account component. It encapsulates all the information needed to initialize and manage the component.

Specifically, a template specifies a component's **metadata** and its **code**.

Once defined, a component template can be instantiated as account components, which can then be merged to form the account's `Code`.

## Component code

The component template’s code defines a library of functions that operate on the specified storage layout.

## Component metadata

The component metadata describes the account component entirely: its name, description, version, and storage layout.

The storage layout must specify a contiguous list of slot values that starts at index `0`, and can optionally specify initial values for each of the slots. Alternatively, placeholders can be utilized to identify values that should be provided at the moment of instantiation.

### TOML specification

The component metadata can be defined using TOML. Below is an example specification:

> ```toml

Reviewer 2: nit: if possible, I'd try to format the example so that it doesn't result in horizontal scroll bars.
